Take a look at a castle, any castle.
Now break down the key elements
that make it a castle.
They haven't changed in a thousand years.
One, location.
A site on high ground that commands
the territory as far as the eye can see.
Two, protection, big walls.
Walls strong enough
fo withstand a frontal attack.
Three, a Garrison.
Men who are trained and willing to kill.
Four, a flag.
You tell your men,
"you're soldiers and that's our flag.”
You tell them, "nobody takes our flag.”
- One step forward.
- Forward!
And you raise that flag so it flies
high where everyone can see it.
Now you've got yourself a castle.
The only difference
between this castle and all the rest
is that they were built
fo keep people out.
This castle is built to keep people in.
All inmatftes...
- Come on. Give me the ball.
- What up, bitch?
Come on.
Give me the fucking ball.
Fuck you!
Sir?
Sir? A movement order just came in.
Give it to captain peretz.
- I'll take that, Sheila.
- It's a "category a" transfer.
Let me see it.
You motherfucker. Fuck you.
- Fall out! Fall out!
- Play ball, man.
Come on.
1700 hours?
No, no, we're prepared.
Well, it's just really fast. Okay.
All right.
You sure you're positive about this?
Okay. Thank you.
Sir?
It's the real deal.
He is coming in at 1700 hours.
1700 hours today?
That's what they said, sir.
I don't understand.
The trial began today.
Apparently, he plead guilty
and got ten years.
They're expediting
his transfer as a courtesy.
Oh, as a courtesy?
They should be naming a base
after the man,
not sending him here.
My god, Eugene irwin.
We have verdict.
We have a sentence. We have a prisoner.
We do our job...
Whether we like it or not.
Puts us on our toes, though, doesn't it?
Escort delall report to gate 18 prisoner.
Escort detail meet the prisoner
on gate a.
I give him a week.
- 'Till what?
- 'Till he scrags himself.
The court-martial didn't put him over
the edge, I guarantee this shithouse will.
- A week?
- Six bundles.
Six? Let's make it ten.
- All right. Make it ten then.
- There we go.
Ten bundles, Mr. dellwo.
Very specific man.
Anybody else?
You guys have absolutely no idea
what you're talking about.
We'll make it like the final four.
Ten bundles a square. Who's in?
I'm not going to bet on whether or not
a man's going to kill himself.
That's some creepy shit, pilot.
Besides, look at him. One week?
He's tougher than that.
How much tougher,
eight, ten, what?
- Eight.
- Anyone else?
- You're an ice-cold motherfucker, yates.
- I'm not betting he's gonna off himself.
- I'm just playing the books.
- And you, cutbush? I know you're in.
- I say a week and a half.
- A week and a half?
- Wallace?
- Go ahead.
I have the transfer, a,
to the p.R.U. Now.
- Copy that. P.R.U.
- One wallet. Leather.
- Family photos?
- My daughter.
- Grandson.
- Would you like to keep these?
That's an authorized item.
I'd appreciate that.
One set of keys. Glasses.
I'm going to need your ring.
Thank you.
Actually, you can keep that.
Academy rings are authorized.
Three stars, two sets.
Looks like that's everything.
So...
Sir? Prisoner irwin is outside.
Five minutes.
You can put that down if you want.
- You talking to me?
- Yes.
I know what you're thinking.
Do I salute you,
or do you salute me?
Well, the answer is neither.
My men salute me, of course,
and each other according to rank.
But there is no saluting by
the general prison population.
Well, first things first.
Are you hungry?
- No.
- Are you sure?
Mondays are our Salisbury steak night.
- Always a cause for celebration.
- Indeed.
Indeed. May I offer you some lemonade?
- Thank you.
- Just be a minute, sir.
- Prisoner aguilar...
- If you'll step over here,
I'll give you
a basic layout of the facility.
The building we're in now
is the administration building.
That building there
houses the tiers.
That's where you
and the other inmates will live.
The building next to it is the laundry,
where I've had you assigned.
That is the old blockhouse wall.
Its all thats left
of the original prison from the 1870s.
I could've removed it,
but I thought it was important to keep
a sense of history,
so I asked the men fo rebuild it
they seem to enjoy it.
It's a matter of some pride now.
Sir?
Yes? Please, on the table there.
Please.
Come on. Let's go.
I personally meet with every new
inmate here at the prison.
Usually downstairs.
And I ask them a question.
What do you expect
from your time here at the castle?
Nothing.
Just to do my time and go home.
Perfect.
That is the perfect answer.
Now I have what may seem
under the circumstances,
a bizarre request.
I have a collection
of most of the seminal books on warfare,
including 7he burden of command.
I was wondering if you would do me
the honor of signing it?
- Certainly.
- Thank you.
Captain peretz.
- Yes, sir?
- Two minutes.
That's impressive.
Yeah. It's a great collection, isn't it?
Yeah, sure.
That's a minié ball from Shiloh,
used in battle.
Grant lost 13,000 men at Shiloh.
Suppose this got one of 'em?
Never know. Do you?
I mean, do you collect anything?
No.
Some coins
from the countries I've traveled to.
My father didn't care
for military collections.
I guess it stuck with me.
Any man with a collection like this is a
man who's never set foot on a battlefield.
To him, a minié ball
from Shiloh is just an artifact.
And to a combat vet,
it's a hunk of metal
that caused some poor bastard
a world of pain.
I must have mis-shelved it,
your book.
We'll do it another time.
No, please, please. Allow me.
Sir, lights out in five.
Do I hold the lock?
No. No. We are...
We're through here.
Prisoner aguilar,
what are you doing?
You do not salute this man,
this man has no rank.
Saluting amongst prisoners is prohibited.
Yes, sir.
But I was saluting you.
Take the prisoners
to their cells, captain.
Yes, sir.
Thank you for your hospitality, colonel.
You're welcome.
Inmates,
one step fo the rear... hall!
Shut the doors!
You're gonna be in cell 345.
You get to shower every other day.
Okay, hold up.
You fuck! I'm going to kill you!
Shut up, beaupre.
We're gonna show you right now.
Do not cross the yellow line
while in formation.
During the day you're free to be
in the area we're walking in right now.
Showers on both sides.
Those stars don't mean shit now, do they?
You're allowed one book in your cell,
in addition to the Bible.
Go up here, then make a right.
- I've got eight bundles on you!
- Let's see...
No, you got to hold out for five weeks,
then kill yourself!
Was on Monday.
- Three-four-five, man.
- Crash 345.
- That's right!
- All right, general.
Kill the whore.
All right, general!
- First call, 0600.
- What'd you do, man?
What are you here for?
- Close 345.
- How many did you kill?
Welcome to the castle, baby!
Sir?
Prisoner irwin's in his cell.
He's really something, isn't he?
Would you like
the end-of-day report, sir?
Is everyone
where they're supposed to be?
- Yes, sir.
- Then skip it.
Very good, colonel.
Is there anything else?
Tomorrow, put out only one basketball.
What's up?
- You just hit a brick wall, baby.
- Nigga, why you doin' that shit?
- Come on.
- Get your hands off me!
Come on, bitch!
- What are you doing, boy?
- Come on!
Three-to-one on the little man.
- Stab him! Yeah!
- Come on, thumper. Kill him!
Come on, bitch!
Come on!
- Three on...
- What are you doing?
You don't like it, doc, take a walk.
You're fuckin' sick, yates.
Take down that bastard!
You see how easy it is to manipulate men?
Someone should write a paper on it.
Come on, man!
Whack him now!
Come on, bitch!
Get in there!
Hold.
Come on, get up!
You can't mess with me.
Come on, pick it up bitch.
You can end it.
Get up!
Come on! Come on, bitch!
- End it.
- Sound the horn.
On the ground now!
All inmates remain on the ground
in a prone position.
Get the hell down now!
- Thumper, get down!
- I didn't mean it!
Get down, thumper! Get down!
- Get down, thumper!
- Yes, sir.
All inmates remain on the ground
in a prone position.
No! I didn't do anything!
Thumper, get down!
- I didn't mean it...
- Sound off.
Oh, shit!
- Watch where you're going.
- Kiss my ass!
Don't worry, we'll do it later.
Damn nigger! “What?
- You heard me!
- Say it to my face! Bitch!
I'm gonna kick
your white ass through the air!
Shut the fuck up!
What the fuck you doing, beano? Hey!
What the fuck are you doing?
- The mortar's weak, beaupre.
- Don't worry about it.
Mind your own business.
Cool out, man.
- Shut up or I'll stick this in your neck.
- You'll end up back in the hole.
Mail-room, mail duty.
- It's all weak.
- Don't worry about the mortar.
- Spit it out.
- My daddy's a Mason.
I don't give a fuck
if your dad built the pyramids.
Whites work the wall, period.
Now, get back on spic duty and bring me
some rocks before I slap you.
- They won't set.
- What did I just tell you?
What'd I just tell you?
We're only doing this to keep
Johnny-fucking-eyeballs off our back.
Don't make me tell you again,
you simple prick. Back the fuck off!
Beaupre! Knock it off.
What? Big hero.
Don't worry about me
going back to the hole.
How you doing?
You probably don't remember me,
but I served under you in the Gulf.
Dr. Thomas Bernard, 33rd medical unit.
That's right.
Actually, it's Lee Bernard,
but close enough.
You were arrested possession
of hashish, as I remember.
- Right.
- It was a small amount, as I recall.
- You don't get sent here for that.
- No, no. You don't.
There's more to it than that.
Hey, thumper!
- I was able to get you an aspirin.
- Thanks.
I got shot with a real bullet once, doc.
Didn't hurt this much.
That's the upside of real bullets,
they cut through flesh,
hit fewer nerve endings.
Downside is they kill you.
Of course, so do
the rubber ones sometimes.
Hell of a downside.
Doc, you think I might get
one of them purple hearts?
Absolutely, thumper. Take it easy.
I'll try to get you more.
You know winter played us with that
one basketball shit? Come on, man.
- General, sir.
- Don't call me sir.
I'm not a general anymore.
- Can we at least talk to you?
- About what?
You got friends in the Pentagon, right?
You could talk to them.
I'm a little hazy on the subject.
What happened here today
happens here all the time, sir.
Let me get this straight.
You mean there's violence?
Yeah.
- In a prison full with violent criminals.
- That's not what I'm saying.
No. There's been...
How many this year, doc?
13 men down, 11 of them
were critical injuries...
Stop your fucking whining.
Listen to yourselves.
Then he only gives us the most
basic medical treatment.
Completely substandard services.
Substandard services?
Yes. Substandard services.
It's fucked-up shit, man.
I had a friend in Hanoi,
who had to repair his own fractured tibia.
You cannot compare what went on
in a foreign pow camp 30 years ago...
No, you can't compare.
I've led real soldiers
in more difficult situations than this.
But you're not
real soldiers anymore,
and neither am I.
There've been murders.
Do you know what happens
when you take a rubber bullet to the head?
The lights go out.
Twice in the last year
there've been accidents,
men have been hit
in the head and killed.
Nothing can be proven.
We're talking about expert marksmen
shooting from minimal distances.
The guards say the guy turned
his head and boom.
It's not a random thing. You get on
winter's bad side, you're done.
When you're doing
combat duty, after a while,
life just becomes... snapshots.
Most of them horrible.
But not all of them.
Three years ago in Bosnia, I was driving
a small unit through an ifor town.
I saw something interesting.
I saw an old man
sitting on a bombed-out porch,
playing a game of dominoes
with what I presume is his grandson.
When I saw that I thought,
"you know, it's my turn."
I didn't retire after that as I should've.
I took one last assignment.
It was a mistake.
So, gentlemen, I'm done.
I'm not fighting anyone
or anything anymore.
I'm doing my time here,
I'm going home, and god willing,
I'm going to sit on the porch
and play a game of dominoes
with my grandson, who I've never met.
I fucking told you, doc.
You call a three-star general "man"?
Why don't you call him "dude"?
Attention, inmates, the library
will close early at 1700 hours.
The library will close
early tonight at 1700 hours.
- Watch yourself, snitch.
- Yates, everything all right?
- Okay.
- My boy say you got a nice ass.
I got a guy in 129,
way behind, telling me stories.
- How late is he?
- Three weeks.
- Why didn't you tell me?
- I'm telling you now.
Yates, no way that was a touchdown, baby.
That was a fucked-up call.
Keep that shit on the down-low.
They're all fucked-up calls.
How you doing?
So we lost: 22 to 20.
Army-Navy game.
Class of '92.
I met you once...
When I was a kid.
1981. It was a welcome-back celebration
at the white house for the pows.
My father was with you in Hanoi.
- What's your name?
- Y ates.
Yates? Sam yates”?
That's right.
- Good man.
- Nah, he wasn't.
After 30 years, everyone's a good man.
It's the law.
How is he? How's your dad?
Not too good. He's dead.
I'm sorry. What happened?
Came home.
Billingworth, irwin, Jacobson, mcla...
You're late. You have
five minutes left to find your visitor.
Five minutes left.
Eugene irwin, he used to be a general.
Who cares? Seriously, man.
Rosalie?
=o
- It's good of you to come.
- Thank you.
Was it hard getting here?
I missed a turn.
It's just good to see you.
- How's Ben? Good?
- Fine.
- School okay? Grades?
- Well, he's in first grade.
- Well, do you have a picture of him?
- No.
The one I have is two years old.
He must've changed a lot since then.
And how are you, Rosalie?
Look, dad...
- "Look dad"
- I just... I can't do this.
I can't do this
small-talk thing with you.
The whole drive over here
I was trying to think what...
What am I going to say?
What can we talk about beyond
the weather and how's Ben
and I just... went blank.
Do I... do I intimidate you?
- Intimidate me?
- I guess that's the downside
of having a "yes, sir" "no, sir"
military father, but I tried not to...
You weren't a father at all.
God, I'm sorry.
I'm not here to whine or be cruel.
You're a great man.
And... you've done so much
for this country.
- But?
- No. No but. No but.
Just this isn't the place.
Well, it's the only place
I've got right now, Rose.
Why did you call me, dad?
Why? I don't know you.
You don't know me.
I mean, what did you think
asking me here?
That I'd come every Sunday
and I'd bring Ben
and he would sit
and color while we talked?
You know, when I was about 20, I had
a list of things I wanted to say to you.
Those days are gone.
The visitation session is over.
Please conclude your visits.
- It isn't enough time.
- Let's go, folks. Let's go.
I'm sorry you're in this place.
- I love you.
- Come on.
And I wish you the best.
I wish you the best.
You figured out what to say after all.
- I guess I did.
- Be all right if I wrote?
There's some things
I'd like to tell you.
- Tell Miguel I said hi.
- Yeah, we will.
When I was in first grade,
I got straight "as."
Come on. Let's go.
- Afternoon, sir.
- Don't call me that. I'm not...
Put your hand down.
Permission to speak, sir. “What?
I just wanted to say,
welcome to the castle, sir.
It's good to have you aboard, sir.
Aboard? You Navy puke, son?
No, no, sir. I was in the corps.
What rank were you when you were arrested?
- I was a...
- Either colonel or corporal.
- I'm guessing corporal.
- Yes, sir.
Why are you here?
What did you do?
Well, that's just it.
I didn't do nothing.
It was a mistake.
Okay.
Medication call is in five minutes.
I hurt someone real bad.
How long you been here?
- Two years.
- And how long do you have?
- How much longer?
- Four years,
eight months, eleven days.
And this mistake,
you've just the one?
Just one.
Just one day in your life”?
- No.
- Take your time. Got plenty of that.
Just five seconds, sir.
You're a marine for what,
one or two years?
And a violent criminal for five seconds?
- Yes, sir.
- Well, according to my calculations,
that makes you mostly marine.
About 98 percent, I'd say.
- Yes, sir.
- Then why not act like one? Stand tall.
The thing you do with your hand,
grabbing your hair, what's that?
That was a salute.
A sa... oh, no. I don't think so.
- You know where saluting comes from?
- No, sir.
It comes from medieval times.
Two knights would approach
each other on horseback.
They would raise their visors
and show their faces.
Like they're saying,
"this is who I am.
I'm not the enemy
and I'm not afraid."
A salute's about respect, son.
Respect for yourself,
the service and the flag.
If you're going to do this...
Sir, you wanted to see me? Sir?
Come.
Look at that.
- Oh, man.
- No, no, no.
At the war college, his very name
was spoken with a reverence.
As if the syllables themselves conveyed
what it meant to be a soldier.
Now here he is...
Commanding an army of one,
the stuttering monkey.
I can't even watch.
I discussed the regulations
on saluting with aguilar, did I not?
- Yes, sir.
- Remind him again, effectively.
Come on, man, let's go.
On the way, sir.
Put your hand down.
Put it down.
- You don't have to do this.
- Prisoner irwin, what are you doing?
- He doesn't have to do this.
- Just step back from the...
- I know how to discipline a soldier.
- Prisoner aguilar, resume your punishment.
- Punishment is over.
- I'm warning you...
Stand down, prisoner!
You're better than this.
Okay, okay. That's enough.
All inmates remain on the ground
in the prone position.
Stay down!
Everybody stay down!
What is happening here?
This prisoner was interfering with the
corporal punishment of prisoner aguilar.
Prisoner irwin,
I understand your coming here
must be a big adjustment for you.
To go from commanding
thousands of troops in battle,
to having no war to fight and
no one following you must not be easy.
However, I do ask that you learn
how things are done around here,
and try to set an example
for the other men.
Saluting is prohibited.
Aguilar was saluting.
He is being disciplined.
Surely you understand that.
Captain, take the prisoner
back to his cell.
Yes, sir.
Sir?
May the prisoner speak, sir?
Yes.
According to the manual of conduct,
the corporal punishment for a prisoner
begun on the day shift cannot exceed
the following morning's horn.
Prisoner irwin,
you are absolutely right.
Thank you for bringing that
to my attention.
- Captain. Captain.
- Yes, sir.
Prisoner irwin,
under no circumstances
is an inmate allowed
to make physical contact with an officer.
You have violated
the U.S. m.C.F. Manual of conduct
and this violation requires discipline.
What's going on?
- Winter's got him on rock-and-roll detail.
- Is he not going to make it?
No way. Three-two against.
Come on, you guys.
Those stones weigh 25 pounds apiece.
It's gonna be 85 degrees by noon,
and we have 2,000 percent humidity.
He's not going to make the day.
- Everyone paid up this week?
- Yeah, we're good.
Put mine in, double or nothing against.
No way he's gonna make it.
Beaupre, 12.
Double or nothing, against.
Hey, hey, hey.
Who's down for ten?
For what? In favor or what?
At least take some water.
If you're dehydrated,
you're gonna drop.
You sticking around?
- Can he take it off, boss?
- Captain?
Take off your shirt if you want.
What the fuck is that?
Electrical burn scars.
How long was he in there?
Six years.
Could've got out in four.
They offered him a release, but he stayed.
He said he wouldn't leave
without his men.
Come on, baby! Drop that rock!
Come on, general. You can do it.
Come on, baby!
Push that rock, soldier!
Kind of tired, sir.
Why don't you call it quits?
Don't listen to him, sir.
It's not that hot.
Why don't you call it quits, sir?
Go, general! Come on, baby!
Come on. One more rock!
You got it, sir!
It's over. Somebody pushed me.
That's it. He's down.
He can't go on like that. Stay down.
Look at me.
- Follow it.
- It's all done. All over.
It's all over.
Yates, 36 packs you owe me.
- How many?
- Four.
- What day is it?
- Saturday.
He's fine.
Yeah!
Go! Go! Go!
Way to go, man!
Yes, sir.
The discipline order
was horn-to-horn labor.
You keep going,
no matter where the stones are.
What's he supposed to do, captain?
He just moved the whole pile.
He can move 'em back.
Bets are still on.
- Seven-two, against.
- You're a fuckin' snake, man.
- Don't bet if you don't wanna.
- Yates, four in favor.
Four in favor, aguilar.
Four in favor!
Who's down for ten?
The horn. They're holding the horn.
Winter's holding the horn.
It's not right.
Son of a bitch.
Everybody to the tiers for count!
Let's go! Move it!
Inmates will move fo fiers
for face-to-badge count.
Inmates will report to the tiers
Why would you kill yourself
to help him with his wall?
It's not his wall. It's your wall.
Prisoner irwin, let's go.
The commandant would like to see you.
- They clean you up okay?
- Yes.
The cut above your eye,
it's not too serious I hope.
I'm okay.
Well, I am sorry about this.
It's the standard cooling-off period
after a punishment detail.
I hope you understand...
I did this for the men.
- The men?
- Yes, to show them.
To show them that you are
no different than they are.
Your new friend, aguilar, he took
a claw hammer to his platoon leader.
He maimed him in a quote,
unquote fit of rage.
Whenever I am... filled with doubt,
whenever sentiment creeps in...
I just have to open an inmate's file
and see what he's done.
I see what he's capable of.
I see the worst of him.
And that makes my job easier.
It crystallizes my mission.
- Take him back to the tiers.
- Yes, sir.
Hold on.
Sergeant, taking him back to cell 345.
Very well, private.
General!
Good night, guys.
- Your winnings.
- My winnings?
Aguilar placed a bet for you.
Four bundles at seven-to-two,
two bundles at eleven-to-one.
That's 36 bundles.
You could be thrown out
of the hall of fame
for betting on yourself.
Corporal aguilar.
Would you pass these out
to the men? I don't smoke.
Thank you, sir.
So you're the gambler.
Nah, I don't gamble.
I'm just the bookkeeper.
Yeah? I hear you're running
a suicide pool on me.
That's right.
Any squares left?
Yeah, there's one. Nine weeks.
- How much to enter?
- No way, man.
You'd off yourself just to win the bet.
Not me.
I bet on myself, it's to win.
Yeah, you don't always win.
No.
Clearly not.
My father said
you kept him alive in Hanoi.
That you kept all those guys alive.
Nah.
When you're tortured,
the first thing they do
is try to break down your sense of self.
And I broke in Hanoi.
For weeks, the last thing in
my mind was self-preservation.
In fact, I prayed for death, every night.
The only thing that kept me
from answering those prayers
were the men's voices in the other rooms,
your father among them.
I don't care what you've heard,
yates. They kept me alive.
Not the other way around.
Hey! Sir?
You cost me my stash of smokes.
Well, I'm sorry about that.
Well, you win some, you lose some.
What did you mean about it being our wall?
It's winter's wall.
He just makes us
work it to keep us occupied.
It's like we're a bunch
of kids or something.
In 1870, there was nothing here.
The original prison
was built by prisoners. I want to show...
Show you something I found the other day.
Where?
Here it is.
You see this?
"Private a.J. Beck, 1912-1923."
Now why do you suppose
private Beck...
What do you think he was doing,
building his own prison?
How the fuck do I know?
Well, I don't know either,
but I can make a guess.
My guess is he wasn't building a prison.
My guess is he was building
something else.
They may have told him to build a prison,
but, in his own mind,
he was raising walls
to protect himself.
My guess is he was building a castle.
That's a castle?
Yeah, it could be.
Could be.
If somebody rebuilt it.
- How we supposed to do that, sir?
- How you supposed to do that?
I don't know anything about walls.
Why don't you ask...
Ask aguilar.
Niebolt!
- Good morning, sir.
- What happened here?
The prisoners knocked it down, sir.
- Why?
- Irwin, he told them to.
Thank you.
Beaupre?
What's up, aguilar?
That's not the right rock.
Cutbush, you believe this kid?
Yeah, he seems
to know his shit, you know?
All right, aguilar. I'll bite.
- Bring me the right rock.
- Okay.
You need a rock with a flat edge,
because that one's jagged.
The jagged ones go in the middle.
The middle? All right.
Bring me another one.
If I keep getting you the flat rocks,
you'll never learn...
I'll get you one more, okay, beaupre?
Mr. aguilar? It looks good.
Thanks, chief.
Morning, chief.
I'm impressed.
Pretty handy with a trowel.
- Good work.
- You know it, chief.
- Nice work.
- Thanks, chief.
- What do you think?
- I think she's beautiful.
- That's the word.
- 18 courses in one week.
Aguilar...
I'm proud of you.
You should be proud.
- Men did good, huh?
- They did.
Now, listen. Be sure to leave a window,
a portal. Every castle has one.
Aguilar? Excuse me, chief.
Aguilar, come here a minute.
- Go ahead.
- Guys, hold up a minute.
Hold up the work.
Hold up.
Maybe you should go first.
Put your name in the wall.
Hey, hold up on the work.
Come on. Put your name
right in here.
Spell it out. A-g.
Scumbags are having at it, sir.
- Really?
- Yes, sir.
They're calling irwin "chief."
That's the word they got for general.
They got substitute names
for the other ranks too, sir.
Anybody who was a captain is "boss."
Sergeants are "sport."
Privates are "pal."
Playing soldier, sir.
- Hearts and minds.
- Sir?
He's building
a structure of loyalty.
He's offering them self-respect,
in exchange for obedience.
The general is building himself an army.
He can have their hearts and minds,
but we got 'em by the balls.
- Well put, corporal.
- Thank you, sir.
Captain.
- Bring him to my office.
- Who, sir?
The prince of Venezuela.
Who do you think?
- General irwin?
- Mr. irwin.
When you first arrived here,
I asked you a question.
Apparently, I need to ask again.
What do you want from your time
here at the castle?
My answer is the same as it was then.
Do my time. Go home.
So you say, but everything
you have done has contradicted that.
These men are not here
for unpaid parking fines and traffic...
I'm under no illusion
why the men are here.
I just think they might be reminded
about some good things they've done,
not only the worst.
Yes, that is... something
my predecessor used to say.
In his last two years here
there were seven escape attempts,
12 injury assaults on officers
and n.C.O.S, including one killed.
Since I took command,
there have been zero escape attempts,
zero injury assaults, zero fatalities.
Some may question my methods,
but they do work.
No soldier has ever died needlessly
under my command, Mr. irwin.
See, I, too, share the burden of command.
You may think that I've never
set foot on a battlefield,
but that's because you've never sat
behind this desk... this desk.
My men and I are vastly outnumbered.
We spend every day behind enemy lines.
Because, make no mistake about it,
they are the enemy.
But I don't need to justify
myself to you, do 1?
I don't know.
Do you?
This wall,
that has become the focus
of so much tension,
and turmoil...
Well,
in about two minutes,
there will be no more wall.
Back away from the wall...
Back away!
Come on!
Back away from the wall.
Aguilar! Aguilar, damn it!
What is he doing?
Sound the horn.
Agui... get down!
All inmates remain...
Aguilar, get down!
What the hell are you doing?
Get down, aguilar.
- No!
- Get down!
Hey, what are you doing, Ramon?
Get down!
- Aguilar, get down!
- Get down!
Aguilar, get the hell down!
- Zamorro.
- Yes, sir.
- You bet, sir.
- What the hell are you doing?
- Get down!
- Aguilar, get down!
Aguilar?
Permission to examine the prisoner, sir.
- Doc! Come on!
- Sir?
- Dellwo.
- You're a sergeant-major?
- I was.
Prisoners! Fall in!
I said, fall in!
Let's go, ladies! Now! Now! Now!
All right! Let's fall in!
Fall in! We don't got all day!
Come on. Fall in!
You look like a bunch of old women!
Fall in, goddamn it!
Fall in! Now! Now!
Now!
- Scumbags runnin' the asylum?
- Maybe.
Some may think to be
remembered in this way...
Would be a disgrace to a soldier.
But this is not a disgrace.
The greatest monuments to fallen men
are not made in marble.
They're deep in the sea,
deep in the jungles,
on foreign battlefields,
a rifle driven into the ground,
with a helmet on top,
and some tags.
And that is the tribute
that this man has earned.
Gentlemen, corporal Ramon aguilar,
United States marine corps.
Sir, do you...
Sound the chow horn.
- Sir, you still have about ten minutes.
- Sound it.
Yes, sir.
Present
arms!
Fall out!
Chow call.
All inmates report to the mess hall.
So, tell me again.
Why is it aguilar had to die?
- Believe us now?
- I believe you now.
Very good.
You have checkmate
in five moves.
Looks that way, sir.
Why you movin' if I have
checkmate in five moves?
'Cause I have checkmate in three.
Shall we... call it a draw?
If you'll excuse us, Mr...
Enriquez. Let's go. Move it out.
Your...
Grandson.
Yes.
Very cute.
- Five?
- Four, when that picture was taken.
Six now.
It was unfortunate about...
Aguilar.
But tough decisions
do go with the job.
Burden of command, correct?
Look...
These salutes,
I've given them some thought.
Technically, they are not
a violation of regulations.
So, if the inmates can confine
themselves to a simple
hand movement through the hair,
I see no problem with it.
And if the men want
to call you chief, well, that's fine.
Free speech and all that.
- Okay, then.
- No, not okay.
It's too late, colonel.
- It's too late for what?
- For your offer.
The men don't want to salute.
They don't want to use rank.
They don't want better food or more TV.
They just want your resignation. So do I.
- My resignation?
- You're a disgrace, colonel.
A disgrace to the uniform.
You shouldn't be allowed
to retain your command.
Well, then I'd better go pack.
I think you should.
Tell me, Mr. irwin,
what's to stop me from just
placing you in the hole
for, say, six months?
Nothing.
If that's how you want to win.
Sir, if I can make a suggestion,
- maybe we should isolate prisoner lrwin...
- Get me general Wheeler.
Yes, sir.
Two weeks ago, I watched as he marched
a man up and down the yard.
A minor eccentricity. Fine.
Since then, he's been acting as though
he still has a command
in some fantasy army.
And yesterday...
I don't think you'd want to make general.
You wouldn't want to give up
all these perks, would you?
Sorry. Go on.
Yesterday, Mr. irwin told me
he required my resignation.
Frankly, I think
he's started to lose the plot.
You saying he's delusional?
I'm saying he needs
professional psychiatric help.
He's sick and becoming pathetic.
You might want to be a little more
careful in your word choice.
That sick, pathetic man
put this star on my shoulder.
Yes, sir. I know.
And I also know
that you sat in on his court-martial.
And don't talk about things
that are above your pay grade.
Yes, sir.
General Wheeler, I admire
the man as much as you do.
I want to see
that he gets the best care possible.
I'm not sure
that this is the right place for that.
All right. Well, let me see him.
Do we read the rules, sir?
Read 'em.
Well, sir, normally for a contact visit,
folks are limited to one embrace
in the beginning and one at the end.
And hands must be visible
at all times, also.
I guess that rules out the hand-job.
Thank you, gentlemen.
- Permission to be seated, sir.
- Permission granted.
Why are you doing here, Jim?
I'm here to see if you've lost your mind.
He should be available laler.
- I can take a... hold on.
- Good morning.
- Jim... Jim, yeah... hold on...
- Miss Kelly?
I got everything here but
- the athletic gear.
- I found that
top one laying on the floor
out in the hallway.
- Hold on. What, Danny?
- I found that top one
- laying on the floor in the hallway.
- Fine. Thanks, Danny.
We just needed you to send him
up here as soon as possible.
He's says you're delusional,
that you're acting as if you're still
in command of an army.
He's saying I'm delusional
because he wants me gone.
Now, if you had ironclad evidence
of winter killing a man
in cold-blood for no good reason,
then I could do something, maybe.
Outside of that,
the man's been investigated three times.
He's been exonerated three times.
And as far as Washington is concerned,
he's doing a superb job.
And you're a convicted criminal.
- You could get another investigation.
- I could.
But without new evidence,
what would be the point?
And besides that, gene, honestly,
I don't give a rat's ass.
I don't care. What I care about
is you and getting you out.
Now, haven't you punished yourself enough?
What I did was wrong, Jim.
All teams.
All teams, this is a full s.O.R.T. Alert.
Repeat: All teams,
this is a full s.O.R.T. Alert.
Gol
I cannot let this continue.
You will get out of here,
and spend some time
with your daughter
and your grandson.
My staff can run a compassionate
release on medical grounds.
You can say whatever...
- There's nothing wrong with me.
- For Christ's sake, will you work with me?
There is nothing wrong with me.
I see no indication of anything, sir.
Of course not. He'll keep it hidden
until the last possible second.
Red team, go.
Go, go, go!
Gene, what the hell is this about?
Is this about control?
Because you know no castle
can have two kings.
Get on the floor, now!
- Come with us.
- What are you doing?
All inmates remain
on the ground in the prone position.
All inmates remain on the ground...
Let's go! What is this!
What is this for Christ's sake?
Go! Let's go! Go, go, go, go!
Go! Go! Go!
All inmates remain
on the ground in the prone position.
All right!
Sir? Tear gas?
Return to hangar.
Nothing is happening.
It was a bluff.
You can take her home.
Return to hangar.
You thought he was trying
to take me hostage?
- It was a precautionary move, sir.
- What kind of grab-ass unit
are you running here, colonel?
Sir, at 11:58 this morning,
I received a letter
stating a group of inmates were planning
to take you hostage at 12:10.
I thought it prudent
to act immediately to ensure your safety.
I heard some disturbing things
about what goes on in here.
Now I'm hearing it from a man
who I trust, whose opinion I respect.
- May I speak freely, sir?
- Yes, you may.
With all due respect,
I don't know
what you may have been hearing.
But until you've spent some time
with those animals,
you have no idea
what happens in there.
Point taken, colonel.
Nevertheless, if I hear one more story
about a man dying under your command,
you are through here.
Do you understand me?
Yes, sir.
All right.
As far as irwin is concerned,
my judgment is he is as sane as you or I.
I wish he wasn't. He is.
I'd like nothing more
than an excuse to get him out of here.
But I see the only way
that'll happen is if you request it.
That is true, sir.
So you just... you tell me
you can't handle him. He's gone.
I think I can handle him, sir.
You watch yourself, colonel.
"Eugene r. Irwin...
Lieutenant general, United States army,
in direct contravention
of an order to evacuate
Burundi by his commander-in-chief..."
That is the president,
for those of you who do not know.
"Selected a platoon
of men to extract
Jackson ngwe, a local warlord.
Disregarding reliable intelligence,
general irwin's reconnaissance team
entered the ville at 0300.
Eight men were captured
and executed."
"Disregarding...
Reliable intelligence..."
"Eight men were executed."
What I want you men to understand
is what the consequences can be,
when you choose to follow
a man who is motivated
solely by his pride.
A man who will do anything
for one more victory notch on his belt,
no matter what the cost,
before he fades away.
Start the extractions.
Go! Move it!
Go! Gol
move it! Move it!
- Come here!
- Get your hands off me.
Let's go. Get out! Get out!
Hi, doc. Let's go for a little walk.
Get the fuck back!
- Open 355!
- Open it up!
- Look at you.
- Relax, ladies.
Hold him down, men!
I had nothing to do with this! No!
- Why don't you just execute me?
- No reason for that!
Turn him around.
Don't put me in the hole!
Don't... don't put me in the hole! No!
- You want that?
- No.
- Thanks, man.
- You bet.
What do we do now?
Jimmy, wait up!
Altention, inmaftes.
All visitation requests must be submitted
lo the s-3 by 1100 today.
All visitation requests...
So, you really did,
you really did bluff winter.
The problem is his flush
beat your straight.
I don't play poker,
Mr. yates. I play chess.
And in chess, you play
with somebody long enough,
you realize that their first three moves
are usually the same.
Chess, huh?
What was his first move?
- What was the first move?
- First, two teams, 20 men apiece.
Like I was saying,
the inside teams only have batons.
Second?
- Second? Water Cannon.
- Third?
- Chopper.
- What kind of chopper?
Sir, should we be having
this discussion this man standing...
You know we can't trust him.
I don't know.
Is that how you use
the burden of command?
To make men into...
Into chess pieces?
- Yes.
- Hey, yates.
Do yourself a favor and run along.
Pawns.
That prisoner walking away, who is that?
That's... that's yates.
He was an apache pilot, but now he's a
lowlife... a hustler. He takes bets.
- On what?
- Anything.
Fights, the weather.
He took bets on whether
irwin was gonna kill himself.
"This highly effective officer
seems to have
no moral grounding whatsoever."
Is that so?
That's what men better
than me seem to think, sir.
Why are you here, yates?
I would like your version.
I was involved in
a drug-smuggling operation
from juarez to El Paso
including several
of my subordinates, sir.
You were "involved."
You ran it, did you not?
Correct.
Says here that you wore
a wire on your men.
Is that correct?
- Yeah.
- And how many years
did they take off
your sentence for that?
Four years, sir.
Now you're the prison bookie.
Tell me, yates,
how does a man like you
get into west point?
My father was awarded
the congressional medal of honor, sir.
Right.
Well, sometimes
the apple does fall far from the tree.
Your father...
Your father was a pow
with Mr. irwin, was he not?
Yes, that is correct.
And yet, you haven't seen fit
to join Mr. irwin's...
- Crusade?
- Crusade.
- Why is that?
- It's not my fight.
Mr. irwin's in a fight?
It says here you have three years
left with us.
- Correct?
- That's what it says.
That's what it says.
Does three months sound better?
I need to resolve this situation, quickly,
before someone else gets hurt, or killed.
Do you agree?
- I guess.
- And I need to do that with information.
So, you might want to rethink
your joining Mr. irwin's crusade.
You asking me to be your snitch, sir?
Isn't it a little late in the game
to be self-righteous?
- Dude, why I got to get my ass kicked?
- How many times you gonna ask?
Stop sniveling.
I'm only gonna hit you once.
- Well, when?
- Now!
Shit!
Fight! Fight!
Sit your tray down!
Hey, fucker!
Please! I am cooperating.
Back off now!
I said back off now!
On your cans!
Let's get on!
Sit your asses down, now! Let's go!
You guys,
we don't have much time.
We can no longer wear
the uniform of a soldier.
We forfeited that right.
And that includes me.
I disobeyed an executive order.
I violated my duty
as a commanding officer.
And eight men paid a catastrophic price.
It's a mistake not easy to live with.
So, here I am, just like you,
a convicted criminal.
The only difference between you and me
is, I know I'm guilty.
So we're packed away here as prisoners.
And one thing is certain.
Our captors have the power.
They can try to humiliate us.
They can beat us.
They can lock us away
in a dark hole for days on end.
But there's one thing they cannot do.
They cannot take away
from us who we are.
And we are soldiers.
Yeah, that's right.
It is the one thing...
That gives us a chance in here.
And that nobody can ever take away.
Yeah, that's right.
The uniform code of military justice.
"Grounds for removal of a stockade
or disciplinary barracks commander.
- One. Dereliction of duty.”
- That's right. Yeah.
"Two. Criminal malfeasance.
Three. Noncompliance
with procedural rules."
Yeah.
"Four. Making false official statements.
Five. Conduct unbecoming
to an officer and gentleman."
Yeah!
"Six. Cruelty and maltreatment
of persons under his command."
Hell, yeah.
"Seven.
Command failure resulting
in loss of control of facility."
Gentlemen, I propose
that we seize control of this facility.
Take a look at a castle, any castle.
Now, break down the key elements
that make it a castle.
Location. Protection. Garrison. Flag.
The only difference between this castle
and all the rest is
- they were built fo keep people out.
- Forward.
This castle was built fo keep people in.
But it's still a castle.
Any castle can be taken,
whether you're fighting
in the 14th century or the 21st.
To succeed in a castle war,
you overcome the Garrison,
take the high ground,
and ultimately, capture the flag.
Okay? Enriquez.
All right. You set up
a command post, okay?
And here, you have the guard...
First of all, this is admin building,
winter's office, guards.
Okay? Phase one,
neutralize winter's guards.
Phase two, towers.
You control the towers,
you control the yard.
Tower one, tower two,
tower three, tower four.
Tower four is zamorro...
Guy to watch.
Phase three, water Cannon.
Four, helicopter.
Helicopter's the high ground.
Taking the helicopter's
gonna be a bitch.
But it's doable.
Finally, the flag.
Capture the flag.
We capture the flag,
we raise it upside down.
- Distress.
- Right.
Right. Upside down means,
"send help.
The fort has fallen."
We raise it upside down,
and keep it that way
until Wheeler arrives and sees it.
Then, we've won.
Yates, shut the...
You see what I mean about him?
Hey, yates,
what are you doing here?
I don't know. Ask him. He invited me.
I know his father served
with you in Vietnam,
but do we need him around?
Yeah. He stays.
- Duffy, you're in maintenance?
- Yes, sir.
Yates.
Got a minute?
How am I doin'?
Five-to-two,
in the colonel's favor.
You don't think I can win.
He knows too...
He knows too much.
He's prepared. He's ready.
He may be prepared, yates,
but he's not ready.
We can use you.
Look man, I just want
to survive this and go home.
You make a deal with him?
- What?
- That's what I would do if I were you.
Go to you.
He knows what you're capable of.
- Listen...
- But so do I.
Oh, yeah?
Well, I know what you're capable of.
- I know your type very well.
- Is that right?
From your years of experience
on the battlefield?
Why do you think I should help you?
- Can you get me out of here?
- No.
Then what are you gonna do for me?
Make me a soldier again?
Is that what you'll do”?
I get to be all I can be?
You gonna teach me to salute?
This is about the time
I would be giving you
my internal soldier speech.
But the truth is, you probably
never should've been a soldier.
Your father was.
That's how I saw him.
You saw him as a disappointment.
Okay. Get past it.
That was then.
Only thing that matters is
what we are and what we do now.
Winter wants to use the worst in you.
He's going to play for it.
I want to see the best.
That means there's no middle.
Now, these men need you.
And I need you.
Now, it's your choice.
And don't tell me
you're surviving here.
You're hiding.
- How's it going this evening, sir?
- Fine, sergeant. How are you?
Sir?
Prisoner yates
wishes to have a word.
Give me five minutes, captain.
Hi.
Colonel winter's office.
Yeah, go ahead and just send it up.
Sir.
Er 3 ==
prisoner yates.
You want me to do this thing for you?
This 30 days...
This three months, it's not gonna cut it.
I got to get out of here immediately,
get out of here tomorrow.
I'm afraid that's not possible.
Look, when this thing explodes,
everyone's gonna know
it was me who yakked.
Then my life's worth nothing.
So, either you get me
out of here immediately,
or you find another guy
who knows as much as I do
and who's willing
to spill it. Good luck.
- I can get you out in one week.
- Sir, I'm not gonna last...
I won't last seven seconds
let alone seven days.
You can ride the week out in the hole.
No one will get you there.
So what does Mr. irwin
have planned for us?
He's planning
to take over the prison.
Really.
Well, that information
won't get you released.
That information won't even get
you extra potatoes at lunch.
I know the details.
I know how he plans
to neutralize your men,
how he plans to take over the tower,
what weapons and tools he's building.
- Do you know when?
- Yates, I know you're in there!
- Cutbush!
You're a fucker, yates!
You are gonna snitch!
Cutbush, shut up!
Cutbush, get down!
Shut up! Niebolt,
what's he doing up here?
He brought up the laundry,
and went ape, sir.
No one talks to him,
or sees him. Understand?
- Yes, sir!
- There's a guard in his cell.
- Damn rat!
- What's the problem?
My mother's sick.
I'm trying to get a furlough.
- Shut up!
- Get him out of here!
Captain, with me.
Oh, Jesus, man.
Now you have no choice,
or you're going
to spend the next three years
in solitary confinement.
I need more time.
I got to go back into general.
I'll know somethin' tomorrow.
Come get me at 0500.
I need more time!
Inmates, one step to the rear. March!
Sir? Where's yates' cell?
Yates? It's 340, sir.
You ready to play?
- Morning, sir.
- Fall out.
Colonel?
Colonel.
Good morning.
What do you have for me?
- Not much.
Then why are you here?
I thought there was something
you might want to know.
When they take over the prison,
they're going to fly the flag upside down.
Upside down?
It's the international sign
of distress, sir.
Yes, I know what it means.
Where are they going to get a flag?
They already have it. Yours.
Mine?
Who was in here yesterday?
I took it, you murdering fuck.
I thought you were smarter than that.
Yes, I know you did.
You gonna tell us where that flag is?
Come on. Get up, yates.
Where's the flag?
You're a real fuckin' coward, zamorro.
And you're a big hero.
Let's go. Come on.
Get your hands off me,
motherfucker!
Fuckin' prick!
Shut up, yates!
All inmates on the rack.
This is a shakedown.
Go, go!
- Come on! Fall out!
- Let's go!
All inmates proceed fo the yard
through the south ports.
On the double! Move it!
Come on. Go, go!
Go! Go! Move it!
Go! Go! Go!
This way, chief.
Let's go! Move it!
Over there, sir.
- It's crazy, huh?
- Let's go! Step it up!
- Come on! Let's go!
- Really crazy.
Move it, prisoners!
- Go!
- All right!
Captain peretz,
you will find my flag.
6:10.
I don't wanna hear that.
You have your orders.
Find the damn thing.
Sir, they found a lot of weaponry.
- But no flag.
- No, sir.
At least we have all their weapons.
There's nothing much
they can do now.
How many men do we have
searching the tiers?
We have close to 100.
Pretty much everybody we could get.
It's not about the flag.
He wants to be in the yard.
Get our men out of the tiers
and into the yard now.
Everybody into the yard!
Riot formation!
Let's go! Double time!
Now!
- Peretz!
- Yes, sir!
Get those men into the yard, now!
Alert the s.O.R.T. Teams. Go, go!
Chain, chain, chain.
All right.
How's it feel, huh?
How's it feel?
Bring him with us.
To the holel
command post up, fast!
Put me down!
You know what's gonna happen to you?
- Go, go, go!
- Let us out!
- Hey! Beaupre, is that you?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Is it happening?
- Fuckin' a it's happening.
Damn it!
They chained the doors to the tiers.
Yes. I can see that.
It's gonna take a while to get around.
When they get here,
tell them to gear up, but hold them.
They'll expect us
to come hard and fast, so we won't.
Whoa! Hey!
Yates, you little prick.
I bet against you
and lost a stash of smokes.
Yeah? There's a lot of losers today.
What's the deal?
Come on, zamorro,
you motherfucker!
Come on! Come on!
You fucking believe this guy?
Okay, let's go.
Here we go. Let's go. Let's go.
- Get it out right now.
- Later, later.
Listen to me. The colonel
said to hold them, okay?
Hold them.
Sir, maybe we should call
c.A.C. And get general Wheeler.
And say what, captain?
Colonel winter has lost control
of his own prison?
Keenan! Keenan,
you ready to go up, man?
Yes, sir!
The trajectory is going to be there.
Where do you want me?
This is sergeant mclaren
from fort Truman prison.
Can I speak to general Wheeler?
Well, you're gonna have to
wake the dude up, man.
This is from colonel winter.
We're having, like, an uprising here.
Go. Launch when ready.
Go, go, go! Come on!
Light her up.
Fire!
Sir. Colonel,
he wants to talk to you.
- Who does?
- Him.
Yes?
Colonel, I'm taking command
of your prison.
Like hell you are.
Come on, guys! Let's go!
Stop fuckin' around!
We don't got much time!
- Let's go! Come on, let's go!
- Dellwo.
Sir?
How close to ready?
Fuck! We're almost there, sir.
Sir, could... could you come here, please?
What is that?
That thing tucked away in the alley.
I don't know.
Release the wave.
Come on! Get it up!
Go ahead and deploy
red and blue teams.
Let's go!
Come on! Move!
Defend!
Lock and load
the fucking thing now!
Take it up.
Light her! Fire!
Gun! Bring me the gun!
Bring me the gun!
Bring it! Bring it!
Let's go! Come on!
Load her up. Load her up.
Charlie, you ready?
- Set!
- Clear! Fire!
Fuck me! It worked, man!
Fire!
- Dellwo.
- Sir?
Move ten feet forward.
Yes, sir.
Ten feet forward!
Zamorro, target the man
loading the rocks into the trebuchet.
Do not let him put another one in.
Dellwo, you gonna make it this time?
You betcha, sir.
Then now is the time.
All the way, sir!
Airborne! Hey, Jack!
- What?
- This is the one! Get it!
Come on. No, no, no, no.
This one in the middle.
- Come on, baby.
- Firel
- Fire!
- Sir!
Come on! Hold it there!
Get it in there! Last one!
Make it count! Make it...
- Be still!
- Put it out! Put it out!
Hey! It's out!
You never can tell
about these flames, man.
Told you
I was gonna get your ass back.
Sir.
Watch the window.
Get that water Cannon now.
- Duffy. Duffy?
- Just a few more minutes, sir.
Fall back! Fall back!
All personnel, fall back!
Come on! Faster!
Come on, Duffy.
What are you doing? Cut it off.
Keep it going!
Let's shift to the c.P.!
Shift to the c.P.! Now! Go!
Duffy, what are you doing?
Yes!
Charge!
Shit!
You coward motherfucker, winter!
Colonel, it's your private line.
- Get it.
- U.S.M.C.F. Colonel winter's office.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Please hold.
It's general Wheeler.
We're on our way, colonel.
There in 20 minutes.
I don't understand, sir.
You have a prison uprising.
You sent for help.
No, no. I...
We have the situation under control, sir.
We're just...
- Mopping up now.
- Good.
Glad to hear it.
We'll see you in 20 then.
Very good, sir.
I want this over. Now.
Get them airborne.
Okay.
Load the water Cannon.
Go, go! Come on, man!
All right, give me the grapple!
Hurry up! Hook it on!
Where's the fuckin' water?
Now.
We're hooked!
Go, yates!
Sir, I think that's yates.
Yes, I know.
Hold on!
Where is he?
Hey! What are you doing? Hey!
Get this guy out!
Clear out. I'm going up.
Zamorro, take him out.
Stop him! Stop him!
To hell with this rubber-bullet shit.
Come on!
Come on.
Oh, no.
- I never wrecked one before.
- Don't talk. Go. Move.
Go! Get out! Go!
You okay, yates?
Let's go.
Ready? Yeah.
Fall in!
Let's go, men!
In formation, now!
On the double!
Let's go, soldiers! Now!
Let's go!
Dress right!
Dress!
Ready, front!
Cover!
The men are assembled, sir.
First and second squad, move out.
Third and fourth squad, move out.
I have authorized the use
of lethal ammunition at this facility.
Any prisoner who refuses
to obey my commands will be shot.
All prisoners
down on the ground,
now!
I will give that command
one more time.
Then I will fire into them.
You don't want that on your conscience,
do you, prisoner irwin?
All prisoners down on the ground, now!
Wait.
We don't have to do this.
We'll fight on.
No. It ends here.
Men, get down!
You, too, yates.
That's an order.
Now, give me my flag.
It's not your flag.
What are you doing, Mr. irwin”?
You have lost.
I will not let you do this.
You will not raise that flag upside down!
Get down on the ground
or you will be fired upon.
This is my command!
You will not raise
that flag upside down!
Designated marksman, open fire.
Selected marksman, open fire.
Open fire on that man!
That's an order!
What are they doing?
What are you doing?
Do it now! Open fire!
Do not let him desecrate that flag!
Open fire on that man!
What are they doing?
Mclaren, niebolt, with me!
Niebolt, stay where you are.
Don't you defy me.
Don't you see what he's doing?
He's undermining my command!
Don't you see?
Don't you see what he's doing?
Step away from the flag!
Colonel!
Colonel, put the gun down, sir.
Please...
Please, put the gun down.
Colonel.
Sir, it's over now.
Just give it to me.
Prisoners, stay down.
Hey, doc!
Go now!
Mclaren, get 'em back in the tiers.
A team, b team, move out now.
Let's go!
Hands behind your head!
All right! On your feet!
Let's go, people.
Hands behind your head.
Prisoners will return to the cell block.
- Come on, doc.
- I gotta stop his bleeding.
- An ambulance is on the way.
- Get him to the hospital.
A great general once said...
"You tell your men,
"you're soldiers. That's our flag.'
you tell them,
nobody takes our flag.
Raise your flag so it flies high
where everyone can see it.
Now, you've got yourself a castle.”